Newsletters: add 171 (2021-10-20) (#667)
bitcoinops/bitcoinops.github.io: _posts/en/newsletters/2021-10-20-newsletter.md

---
title: 'Bitcoin Optech Newsletter #171'
permalink: /en/newsletters/2021/10/20/
name: 2021-10-20-newsletter
slug: 2021-10-20-newsletter
type: newsletter
layout: newsletter
lang: en
---
This week's newsletter FIXME:harding

## News

- **Paying offline LN nodes:** Matt Corallo started a [thread][corallo
  mobile] on the Lightning-Dev mailing list for brainstorming how
  frequently-offline LN nodes (such as those on mobile devices) can
  receive payments without requiring a custodial solution or locking up
  channel liquidity for prolonged periods of time.  Corallo believes
  there's a reasonably good solution involving an untrusted third
  party once LN is [upgraded][zmn taproot] to support [PTLCs][topic
  ptlc], but he's also seeking suggestions for any alternative solutions
  that could be deployed even before PTLC support is added.

> - **FIXME:harding needs a better title:** a few weeks apart, developers

Reviewer: "A probing question", "Probe-able flaws", "Towards more probable probe-ability" ?

  ZmnSCPxj and Joost Jager each made [substantially][zmn prop] similar
  [proposals][jager prop] for eliminating the requirement to lock up
  capital in order to probe a payment path.  Both proposals suggest this
  as a first step towards adding upfront routing fees to the
  network---fees that would cost the spender money even if a payment
  attempt failed.  Upfront fees are one of the suggested mitigations for
  [channel jamming attacks][topic channel jamming attacks].

    Currently, LN nodes can send guaranteed-to-fail payments in order to
    probe a payment path.  For example, Alice generates an [HTLC][topic
    htlc] that pays a preimage nobody knows.  She routes the payment
    through Bob and Charlie to Zed.  Since Zed doesn't know the payment
    preimage, he's forced to reject the payment even though it indicates
    he's supposed to be the ultimate receiver.  If Alice receives the
    reject message from Zed's node, she knows that Bob and Charlie had
    enough funds in their channels to allow paying Zed, and so she can
    immediately react to Zed's rejection by sending an actual payment
    that has a high probability of succeeding (it would only fail if Bob's

>     or Charlie's balances had changed in the meantime).  The advantage

Reviewer 2: This isn't the _only_ reason that the payment could fail. For example, Bob or Charlie could go offline, or change their forwarding policy, or ...

    extra capital to improve the network if a sustained attack did occur).

    The idea received a modest level of discussion as of this writing.

- **Testing taproot:** in response to a [request][schildbach taproot
  wallet] on the Bitcoin-Dev mailing list, Anthony Towns
  [provided][towns taproot wallet] step-by-step instructions for
  creating a taproot address for testing in Bitcoin Core on
  [signet][topic signet] or testnet.  These instructions may be easier
  to use for developers testing taproot than those [previously
  provided][p4tr signet] by Optech.

## Changes to services and client software

*In this monthly feature, we highlight interesting updates to Bitcoin
wallets and services.*

- **Zeus wallet adds LN features:**
  Zeus, a mobile Bitcoin and Lightning wallet application, in its
  [v0.6.0-alpha3][zeus v0.6.0-alpha3] release, provides additional support for [atomic
  multipath payments (AMPs)][topic amp], [Lightning Addresses][news167 lightning
  addresses], and [coin control][topic coin selection] features.

- **Sparrow adds coinjoin support:**
  [Sparrow 1.5.0][] adds [coinjoin][topic coinjoin] features by integrating with
  Samourai's [Whirlpool][whirlpool].

> - **JoinMarket 0.9.0 adds RBF support:**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **JoinMarket 0.9.2 adds RBF support:**
```

Reviewer 3: fixup'd

## Releases and release candidates

*New releases and release candidates for popular Bitcoin infrastructure
projects.  Please consider upgrading to new releases or helping to test
release candidates.*

FIXME:harding

- BDK 0.12.0 FIXME

## Notable code and documentation changes

*Notable changes this week in [Bitcoin Core][bitcoin core repo],
[C-Lightning][c-lightning repo], [Eclair][eclair repo], [LND][lnd repo],
[Rust-Lightning][rust-lightning repo], [libsecp256k1][libsecp256k1
repo], [Hardware Wallet Interface (HWI)][hwi repo],
[Rust Bitcoin][rust bitcoin repo], [BTCPay Server][btcpay server repo],
[BDK][bdk repo], [Bitcoin Improvement Proposals (BIPs)][bips repo], and
[Lightning BOLTs][bolts repo].*

<!-- we wouldn't normally cover a small code comment like this, but it
seems worth publicizing the decision to use this value -->
- [Bitcoin Core #22863][] documents a decision to use the same minimum
  output amount ("dust amount") of 294 sat for P2TR outputs as for
  P2WPKH outputs.  This is done even though it costs less to spend a
  P2TR output than a P2WPKH output because some developers were
  [opposed][bitcoin core #22779] to lowering the dust limit at this
  time.

> - [Bitcoin Core #23093][] adds a new `newkeypool` RPC that will mark all

Reviewer 2: Perhaps:

```suggestion
- [Bitcoin Core #23093][] adds the `newkeypool` RPC method that will mark all
```

to remove the slightly awkward new new

>   pre-generated addresses in the wallet as used so that a new set addresses

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  pre-generated addresses in the wallet as used so that a new set of addresses
```

  used in the background if a user upgrades from an older non-[BIP32][]
  wallet to using [HD key generation][topic bip32].

- [Bitcoin Core #22539][] Re-include RBF replacement txs in fee estimation FIXME:Xekyo

- [C-Lightning #4567][] pay: listpays groups by payment_hash and groupid FIXME:dongcarl

- [Eclair #1985][] adds a new `max-exposure-satoshis` configuration setting <!-- full name is
  long:
  eclair.on-chain-fees.feerate-tolerance.dust-tolerance.max-exposure-satoshis
  --> that allows the user to set the maximum amount of money they'll
  donate to miners if the channel is forced closed with unresolved
  [uneconomical payments][topic uneconomical outputs].  See the
  description of CVE-2021-41591 in [last week's newsletter][news170 ln
  cve] for more information.

- [Rust-Lightning #1124][] extends the `get_route` API with the ability
  to pass an additional parameter that can be used to avoid reusing
  previously failed routes.  Additional planned changes will make it
  easier to use previous routing successes and failures to improve the
  quality of later results.

- [BOLTs #894][] updates the specification with checks implementations

>   should implement to prevent donating excess bitcoins to miner fees

Reviewer 2: "with checks implementations should" is a bit difficult to parse. How about splitting the sentence into something like "BOLTs 894 adds new suggested checks on peers' dust limits. Implementors are encouraged to use these checks to prevent..." or similar?
